{\rtf1\ansi \deff0
  {\fonttbl
    {\f0\fmodern Courier;}
    {\f1\froman Symbol;}
    {\f2\fswiss Helv;}
    {\f3\froman Times New Roman;}
    {\f4\fswiss Arial;}
    {\f5\froman CG Times (WN);}
    {\f6\fswiss Univers (WN);}
    {\f7\froman Roman;}
    {\f8\fmodern Modern;}
    {\f9\fscript Script;} 
  } 

  {
   \colortbl; \red0\green0\blue0; \red0\green0\blue255; \red0\green255\blue255;       
   \red0\green255\blue0; \red255\green0\blue255; \red255\green0\blue0; 
   \red255\green255\blue0; \red255\green255\blue255;
  }

  {\stylesheet{\s244 \f5\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}
  {\s245 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}
  {\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}

{\info
  {\title RAILCONTROLHELP}
  {\author Martin Davidson}
  {\operator Martin Davidson}
  {\creatim\yr1994\mo11\dy01\hr09\min00}
  {\revtim\yr1994\mo11\dy01\hr09\min00}
  {\version2.0}
  {\edmins1}
  {\nofpages0}
  {\nofwords65536}
  {\nofchars65536}
  {\vern8368}
}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \f5\fs20 
{\plain \f5\up6 
}
#{\footnote main_contents}${\footnote Contents}K{\footnote Contents}}
\pard\keepn
\f4\fs8\par
\f4\fs36\b{\{bml dispicon.bmp\}} Contents\par
\f4\fs8\par
\par\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
{\{bml loco.bmp\}}
Rail Control is a simulation program which can be used to simulate the 
traffic flow in a wide variety of stations. Prototype and timetable information is 
held in a special {\b\i rail control data file (*.{\fs18 RCD})} which is read in 
when the simulation initialises. In this way many different scenarios 
can be simulated.\par
To learn how to use help press {\fs18 F1} or choose How to use Help from the Help menu. For more information on Rail Control choose one of the following topics.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Overviews\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par\uldb
What is Rail Control?\plain \v\f4 whatis\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb 
Installing Rail Control\plain \v\f4 install\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb 
RCD file format\plain \v\f4 fileformat\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Version information\plain \v\f4 versioninfo\plain \par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Commands\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par\uldb
Main window display\plain \v\f4 mainwin\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
The tool bar\plain \v\f4 toolbars\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
RCD data file sections\plain\f4\fs20\parf
\par\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par\pard\plain
\page 


#{\footnote versioninfo}${\footnote Version information}K{\footnote Overviews;Version information}+{\footnote Overviews:40}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Version information\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
This help file relates to version 2.3 of the Rail Control program {\fs18 (RAILC.EXE)}. This 
version was released on 31/01/2008.\par
\par
\par
{\b\f4\fs24 Changes in version 2.3:}\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} New overlapping entry in RCD datafile.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Comments allowed on timetable entries, and special {\i Becomes} processing.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Maximum number of timetable entries increased from 199 to 499.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Through trains supported.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Locoyard is now optional.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Additional locomotive types supported: {\fs18 [HEAVYFREIGHT], [SC_DMU156], [SC_DMU158], [SC_DMU170], [SC_TWIN156], [SC_TWIN158], [SC_TWIN170], [SC_DMU150]}.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} Debugging support added to enable selector and section numbers to be drawn.  These options are controlled via the {\fs18 [TIMETABLE]} section.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b GUI.} Revised window sizes, automatic positioning and colours.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b GUI.} Arrival and departure windows both now display details for next 8 trains (rather than 4).\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b GUI.} Arrival and departure delays now have 0.1 minute granularity.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Simulation.} Arriving train state machine revised to fix bugs.\par
\par
\par
{\b\f4\fs24 Changes in version 2.0:}\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b RCD configuration file.} The station and timetable information is no longer hard 
coded into the program. Instead this information is stored in a special configuration file: 
the {\i\b\fs18 RCD} file. To reflect this change the program is no longer called King's Cross 
Control: it is now called Rail Control.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Finish dialog.} When the specified simulation period is complete a status dialog 
is displayed. The number of arriving and departing trains and the associated delays along 
with a performance rating is displayed.\par
\par\pard\f4\fs20
\par
Future improvements planned include: fully customizable sub-windows, enhanced 
display options, improved graphical display and an improved {\fs18 RCD} file 
format.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page

#{\footnote whatis}${\footnote What is Rail Control?}K{\footnote Overviews;What is Rail Control?}+{\footnote Overviews:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b What is Rail Control?\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bml splashwn.bmp\}}\par
Rail Control is an advanced railway simulation program which allows you 
to simulate stations of various types and sizes (e.g. terminal and 
through stations).\par
\par
It uses a special configuration file known as an {\b\fs18 RCD} file to 
store the necessary information. This file is read in at the start of 
every simulation run and used to determine the layout of the track 
sections, the available routes, the locomotives available and the 
timetable used.\par
\par
For more information on the format of the {\fs18 RCD} data file refer 
to the following topics.\par
\par 
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD file format\plain \v\f4 fileformat\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page

#{\footnote install}${\footnote Installing Rail Control}K{\footnote Overviews;Installing Rail Control}+{\footnote Overviews:10}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Installing Rail Control\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
{\fs24\b Requirements}\par
\par
To run Rail Control you will require at least a 386sx16 computer with 4MB of memory capable of 
running Windows in enhanced mode. While Rail Control may run on lower specification hardware 
its performance will be very slow. The program itself requires around 1MB of disk space 
depending upon how many {\fs18 RCD} files you have.\par
\par
{\fs24\b Installation of the program}\par
\par
To install Rail Control create a suitable directory on the target computer such as C:\\RAILC and 
copy the files {\fs18 RAILC.EXE} and {\fs18 RAILC.HLP} from the distribution disk to this directory. Also copy the 
file {\fs18 CTL3D.DLL} to this directory. You will also require an {\fs18 RCD} 
data file so copy all files with the {\fs18 RCD} extension to this 
directory as well.
\par
To install the Rail Control icon into Program Manager follow these simple steps:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Select Program Manager using the mouse and then select the group that you wish to add the 
Rail Control icon to by clicking on it. \par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Select {\fs18 FILE|NEW...} from the main menu and then ensure that the {\b\fs18 ITEM} radio button 
is selected and then press OK.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Fill in the {\b Program Item Properties} dialog box using the one shown below as a guide.\par
\par
{\{bml progprop.bmp\}}\par
\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Press {\fs18 OK} to add the item to the group.\par
\par\pard\f4\fs20
\par
The program icon should now be installed in Program Manager.\par
\par
{\fs24\b Completing the installation}\par
\par
Before you can use Rail Control properly you must specify a {\fs18 RCD} data file to use. 
To do this follow these instructions:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Start Rail Control by double clicking the icon in Program Manager.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab Select {\fs18 GAME|SET DATA FILE...} from the main menu and select the name of a 
{\fs18 RCD} data file. For example choose {\fs18 KINGSX.RCD}.\par
{\fs24\b  
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page

#{\footnote fileformat}${\footnote RCD file format}K{\footnote Overviews;RCD file format}+{\footnote Overviews:15}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD file format\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
{\fs24\b Overview}\par
\par
The {\fs18 RCD} file is used to store all the necessary information 
required to completely specify a simulation. No information is hard 
coded into the program. More specifically the following items are stored 
in the {\fs18 RCD} file.\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Selector information:} Selectors are used to select start and end points on routes.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Section information:} The track in the station area is divided into sections 
each of which has its position specified in a device independant coordinate frame.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Platform information:} Each platform indicator needs information specified about its 
position. These are the indicators which change colour to indicate the status of a train when it 
is in a platform.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Route information:} Information about all the possible routes from one selector to 
another selector.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Loco information:} This details all the various locos available during the 
simulation and their type classification. \par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Locoyard information:} The loco types available in the locoyard at the start of 
a simulation.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b Timetable information:} This is the general arrival/departure timetable used 
in the simulation.\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab {\b General information:} Information about the simulation start 
and stop time.\par
\par\pard\f4\fs20
{\fs24\b RCD file format}\par
\par
The {\fs18 RCD} file is a plain ASCII text file which is arranged into 
sections as described by the headings above. Thus there are sections 
named {\fs18 [SELECTORS]} and {\fs18 [ROUTES]} for example. The data 
follows the section heading and is arranged in rows with each line 
having the same format.\par
\par
Each line is identified by a {\i line number} which is the first item in 
the line. In a section each line must have a unique line number which is 
within the limits specified. If it is outside the allowable limits Rail 
Control will refuse to read the file: if Rail Control detects any errors 
in the {\fs18 RCD} file then it will display a warning message and stop 
reading the file.\par
\par
The following topics detail the format of each of the data sections in 
the {\fs18 RCD} file.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote selectors}${\footnote RCD [SELECTOR]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [SELECTOR]}+{\footnote RCD:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [SELECTOR]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [SELECTOR]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <X>, <Y>, <W>, <H>, <Type>, <Platform ref>, <Name>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the selector reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 49.\par
{\f0\fs20 <X>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates. The 
size of the screen is 850x550 (WxH).\par
{\f0\fs20 <Y>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates. The 
size of the screen is 850x550 (WxH).\par
{\f0\fs20 <W>}\tab is the width of the selector in device independant 
coordinates. The recommended size is 30 units.\par
{\f0\fs20 <H>}\tab is the height of the selector in device independant 
coordinates. The recommended size is 30 units.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Type>}\tab is the type of the selector. See below for defined 
types.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Platform ref>}\tab is the reference number of the associated 
platform indicator. This value should only be non-zero when the <Type> 
field indicates that this selector controls a platform or that this is the 
hold point (see below for more information). Otherwise this value should be zero.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Name>}\tab is the name which is displayed on the selector. 
This field is treated as a string. It is recommended that it should not 
be any longer than 2 characters. The maximum length allowable is 5 
characters.\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
{\fs24\b Defined selector types}\par
\par
The following selector types are defined:\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 1}\tab Input line.\par
{\b 2}\tab Output line.\par
{\b 3}\tab Non-electrified platform (suitable for diesel trains only).\par
{\b 4}\tab Electrified platform (suitable for all trains).\par
{\b 5}\tab Hold point which is suitable only for light loco movements (only one allowed).\par
{\b 6}\tab Locoyard (only one allowed).\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Values other than those defined above are reserved for future use and 
should not be used. Do not attempt to have more than one type 5 
(locoyard) or type 6 (hold point) section.\par
\par
The value of the {\f0\fs20 <Platform ref>} field has a special use when 
the {\f0\fs20 <Type>} field is set to 6 (hold-point). In this case it 
contains the reference number of the section to be used as the hold-point section. It is recommended 
that this section be adjacent to the hold-point selector.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote sections}${\footnote RCD [SECTIONS]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [SECTIONS]}+{\footnote RCD:10}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [SECTIONS]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [SECTIONS]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <X1>, <Y1>, <X2>, <Y2>, <X3>, <Y3>, <X4>, <Y4>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the section reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 999.\par
{\f0\fs20 <X1>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the top left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y1>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the top left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X2>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the top right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y2>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the top right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X3>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the bottom right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y3>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the bottom right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X4>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the bottom left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y4>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the bottom left 
corner.\par 
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
The size of the screen in device independant coordinates is 850x550 
units (width by height). It is recommended that all the section 
information is kept within a sub-rectangle of 700x400 units centered on 
the screen.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote overlapping}${\footnote RCD [OVERLAPPING]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [OVERLAPPING]}+{\footnote RCD:11}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [OVERLAPPING]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [OVERLAPPING]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <Section1>, <Section2>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the overlapping reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 49.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Section1>}\tab is the reference number of the first section.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Section2>}\tab is the reference number of the second section.\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
The {\fs18 [OVERLAPPING]} section of the data file allows sections which phyiscally overlap to be identified.  
Rail Control will then treat these two sections as being the same logical section; thus if {\f0\fs20 <Section1>}
is occupied, no routes can be set up that use {\f0\fs20 <Section2>} and vice versa.\par
\par
This datafile item is new for v2.3.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote platforms}${\footnote RCD [PLATFORMS]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [PLATFORMS]}+{\footnote RCD:15}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [PLATFORMS]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [PLATFORMS]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <X1>, <Y1>, <X2>, <Y2>, <X3>, <Y3>, <X4>, <Y4>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the platform reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 49.\par
{\f0\fs20 <X1>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the top left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y1>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the top left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X2>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the top right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y2>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the top right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X3>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the bottom right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y3>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the bottom right 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <X4>}\tab is the X position in device independant coordinates of the bottom left 
corner.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Y4>}\tab is the Y position in device independant coordinates of the bottom left 
corner.\par 
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
The size of the screen in device independant coordinates is 850x550 
units (width by height).\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote routes}${\footnote RCD [ROUTES]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [ROUTES]}+{\footnote RCD:20}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [ROUTES]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [ROUTES]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <From>, <To>, <Clear1>, <Clear2>, <Clear3>, <Clear4>, <Clear5>, <Clear6>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the routes reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 999.\par
{\f0\fs20 <From>}\tab is the reference number of the selector at which 
the route starts.\par
{\f0\fs20 <To>}\tab is the reference number of the selector at which the 
route ends.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear1>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the first part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear2>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the second part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear3>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the third part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear4>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the fourth part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear5>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the fifth part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Clear6>}\tab is a specially formatted number which contains 
the reference numbers of either one or two sections which are cleared as 
the sixth part of the route. For more detailed information see below.\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
{\fs24\b More information}\par
\par
Each route is divided into six parts with one part being cleared for 
every clock tick. Since a clock tick occurs every 30 {\i simulated} 
seconds it will take 3 {\i simulated} minutes to clear a complete 
route.\par
\par
At every tick either one or two sections may be cleared. This is 
determined by the value in the {\f0\fs20 <ClearX>} items. The number 
is formed by concatenating the values of the reference values of the 
sections to be cleared at the given part of the route.\par
\par
Thus to clear sections 12 and 5 on the first clock tick enter 12005 
for {\f0\fs20 <Clear1>}. Note that the second value is padded with a zero 
so that each section occupies three digits. Rail Control automatically 
checks to ensure that the sections specified actually exist.\par
\par
A special condition exists for routes which start from the hold point. 
The value of the {\f0\fs20 <Clear1>} field should be set to zero (0) as 
the first section to be cleared is the hold section (specified in the 
{\fs18 [SELECTOR]} section). This section is cleared automatically by Rail 
Control.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote locos}${\footnote RCD [LOCOS]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [LOCOS]}+{\footnote RCD:25}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [LOCOS]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [LOCOS]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <Class>, <Loco number>, <Type>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the locos reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 499.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Class>}\tab is the loco class number. Typical classes are 31, 47, 55 etc.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Loco number>}\tab is the actual loco number. Typical numbers 
are 100, 517 etc. This value is concatenated with the {\f0\fs20 <Class>} value to form 
the combined loco number. This field is treated as a string so be sure to 
specify leading zeros if they are required.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Type>}\tab is the flag which determines the loco type. For more 
detailed information see below.\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
{\fs24\b Defined loco types}\par
\par
The following loco types are defined:\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 1}\tab ECS (empty coaching stock) low power loco {\fs18 (SC_ECS)}.\par
{\b 2}\tab HST (High speed train/Intercity 125) type loco {\fs18 (SC_HST)}.\par
{\b 3}\tab EMU (Electric multiple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_EMU)}.\par
{\b 4}\tab Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_DELTIC)}.\par
{\b 5}\tab Normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_NORMAL)}.\par
{\b 6}\tab Relief medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_RELIEF)}.\par
{\b 7}\tab Light (unattached) ECS low power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTECS)}.\par
{\b 8}\tab Light (unattached) normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTNORM)}.\par
{\b 9}\tab Light (unattached) Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTDELT)}.\par
{\b 10}\tab Push/pull train typically using a class 47/7 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_PUSHPULL)}.\par
{\b 11}\tab DMU (Diesel mutliple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_DMU1)}.\par
{\b 12}\tab Class 37/4 medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_CLASS37)}.\par
{\b 13}\tab Light (unattached) relief medium power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTRLF)}.\par
{\b 14}\tab Light (unattached) class 37/4 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHT37)}.\par
{\b 15}\tab Heavy freight locomotive - typically Class 56, 58, 60 or 66 {\fs18 (SC_HEAVYFREIGHT)}.\par
{\b 16}\tab Single class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU156)}.\par
{\b 17}\tab Single class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU158)}.\par
{\b 18}\tab Single class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU170)}.\par
{\b 19}\tab Twin class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN156)}.\par
{\b 20}\tab Twin class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN158)}.\par
{\b 21}\tab Twin class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN170)}.\par
{\b 22}\tab Single class 150 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU150)}.\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Only values 1 to 6, 10 to 12 and 15 to 22 inclusive should be used for the {\f0\fs20 <Type>} field. 
Values 7, 8, 9, 13 and 14 are used in the {\fs18 [TIMETABLE]} section. Values other 
than those defined above are reserved for future use and should not be used.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote locoyard}${\footnote RCD [LOCOYARD]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [LOCOYARD]}+{\footnote RCD:30}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [LOCOYARD]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [LOCOYARD]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Loco type>, <Refuel delay>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Loco type>}\tab is the flag which determines the loco type. For more 
detailed information see below.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Refuel delay>}\tab is the time in minutes that the loco will be refuelling for from 
the start of the simulation. This value can be set between 0 and 60 minutes.\par 
\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Alternatively, if the locoyard is not required for the simulation, it can be disabled by entering the word {\i Disabled} on the 
line immediately following the {\fs18 [LOCOYARD]} heading.  If the locoyard is disabled, then locomotives will not need to be 
refuelled and can be reused on other trains immediately.\par
\par
\par
{\fs24\b Defined loco types}\par
\par
The following loco types are defined:\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 1}\tab ECS (empty coaching stock) low power loco {\fs18 (SC_ECS)}.\par
{\b 2}\tab HST (High speed train/Intercity 125) type loco {\fs18 (SC_HST)}.\par
{\b 3}\tab EMU (Electric multiple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_EMU)}.\par
{\b 4}\tab Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_DELTIC)}.\par
{\b 5}\tab Normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_NORMAL)}.\par
{\b 6}\tab Relief medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_RELIEF)}.\par
{\b 7}\tab Light (unattached) ECS low power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTECS)}.\par
{\b 8}\tab Light (unattached) normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTNORM)}.\par
{\b 9}\tab Light (unattached) Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTDELT)}.\par
{\b 10}\tab Push/pull train typically using a class 47/7 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_PUSHPULL)}.\par
{\b 11}\tab DMU (Diesel mutliple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_DMU1)}.\par
{\b 12}\tab Class 37/4 medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_CLASS37)}.\par
{\b 13}\tab Light (unattached) relief medium power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTRLF)}.\par
{\b 14}\tab Light (unattached) class 37/4 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHT37)}.\par
{\b 15}\tab Heavy freight locomotive - typically Class 56, 58, 60 or 66 {\fs18 (SC_HEAVYFREIGHT)}.\par
{\b 16}\tab Single class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU156)}.\par
{\b 17}\tab Single class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU158)}.\par
{\b 18}\tab Single class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU170)}.\par
{\b 19}\tab Twin class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN156)}.\par
{\b 20}\tab Twin class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN158)}.\par
{\b 21}\tab Twin class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN170)}.\par
{\b 22}\tab Single class 150 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU150)}.\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Only values 1 to 6, 10 to 12 and 15 to 22 inclusive should be used for the {\f0\fs20 <Type>} field. 
Values 7, 8, 9, 13 and 14 are used in the {\fs18 [TIMETABLE]} section. Values other 
than those defined above are reserved for future use and should not be used.\par
\par
Up to 15 locomotives can be defined to be in the locoyard at the start 
of the simulation. Attempts to set more than this will generate an 
error.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote timetable}${\footnote RCD [TIMETABLE]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [TIMETABLE]}+{\footnote RCD:35}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [TIMETABLE]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Each entry in the {\fs18 [TIMETABLE]} section has the following form:\par
\par
\f0\fs20
<Number>, <Arr desc>, <Dep desc>, <Arr point>, <Arr time>, <Release time>, <Dep time>, <Arr code>, <Dep code>, <Status>, <Extra1>, <Reuse>  # <Comment>\par
\f4\fs20\par
where:\par
\par
\tx1800\li1800\fi-1800
{\f0\fs20 <Number>}\tab is the timetable reference number. The allowable range is 
1 to 499.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Arr desc>}\tab is a text string of up to 16 characters in length. 
This is the arrival description which describes the train in the 
arrivals window and in the platform window until the stock is 
released.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Dep desc>}\tab is a text string of up to 16 characters in length. 
This is the departure description which describes the train in the 
departures window and in the platform window once the stock has been  
released.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Arr point>}\tab is the reference number of the selector at which the train 
appears. The name of this selector is used in the arrivals window to 
indicate which line the train will appear on. The selector number should 
refer to a selector of type {\i Input}.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Arr time>}\tab is the offical arrival time of the train. 
Depending on the options set the train may be subject to a random delay 
which will be added to or subtracted from this time. The format of this field is 
{\fs18 HHMM} where {\fs18 HH} signifies the arrival hour and {\fs18 MM} the arrival 
minute. Thus for train arriving at 12:23pm the value of this field should be 1223.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Release time>}\tab is the time it takes the stock to be 
released. This corresponds to the time it takes for passengers to 
disembark, for the stock to be cleaned and for the loco to be uncoupled 
from the stock. This time value is specified in minutes. Thus for a 
release time of 3 hours the value of this field is 180.\par 
{\f0\fs20 <Dep time>}\tab is the offical departure time of the train. 
This is specified in the same {\fs18 HHMM} format used for {\f0\fs20 Arr 
time} field. For a train which departs as ECS (empty coaching stock) 
the value of this field should be zero (0).\par
{\f0\fs20 <Arr code>}\tab is the {\i stock code} of the arriving 
train. See below for more information.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Dep code>}\tab is the {\i stock code} of the departing 
train. See below for more information.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Status>}\tab is the arriving train status. The value of this 
field should only be non-zero if it is desired that the train should be 
in a platform at the start of the simulation. See below for more 
information.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Extra1>}\tab is an extra piece of data whose interpretation 
is dependant on whether the train is in the station at the start of the 
simulation. See below for more information.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Reuse>}\tab determines whether the locomotive from this train is 
reused on another train. The default value of zero means that this loco is 
not to be reused. To reuse a locomotive set the value of this field to the 
{\f0\fs20 <Number>} of the timetable item which is to reuse this loco. When the first train 
departs Rail Control will check to see if this later timetable item has a loco 
assigned to it. If it has not then the loco will be reassigned.\par
{\f0\fs20 <Comment>}\tab is an optional field containing a comment.  Normally any 
characters following the # character are ignored.  However if the comment begins with 
the word {\i Becomes}, then this field is used for locomotive reuse validation.  In this case 
the text following the word {\i Becomes} should be the arrival description of the timetable 
entry identified by the {\f0\fs20 <Reuse>} field.  This adds a secondary cross-check that 
helps ensure that the {\f0\fs20 <Reuse>} field is set correctly.\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
{\fs24\b Defined stock codes}\par
\par
The fields {\f0\fs20 <Arr code>} and {\f0\fs20 <Dep code>} should be 
filled with a {\i stock code}. The following codes are defined:\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 1}\tab ECS (empty coaching stock) low power loco {\fs18 (SC_ECS)}.\par
{\b 2}\tab HST (High speed train/Intercity 125) type loco {\fs18 (SC_HST)}.\par
{\b 3}\tab EMU (Electric multiple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_EMU)}.\par
{\b 4}\tab Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_DELTIC)}.\par
{\b 5}\tab Normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_NORMAL)}.\par
{\b 6}\tab Relief medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_RELIEF)}.\par
{\b 7}\tab Light (unattached) ECS low power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTECS)}.\par
{\b 8}\tab Light (unattached) normal medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTNORM)}.\par
{\b 9}\tab Light (unattached) Deltic high power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTDELT)}.\par
{\b 10}\tab Push/pull train typically using a class 47/7 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_PUSHPULL)}.\par
{\b 11}\tab DMU (Diesel multiple unit) for suburban duties {\fs18 (SC_DMU1)}.\par
{\b 12}\tab Class 37/4 medium power mainline locomotive {\fs18 (SC_CLASS37)}.\par
{\b 13}\tab Light (unattached) relief medium power locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHTRLF)}.\par
{\b 14}\tab Light (unattached) class 37/4 locomotive {\fs18 (SC_LIGHT37)}.\par
{\b 15}\tab Heavy freight locomotive - typically Class 56, 58, 60 or 66 {\fs18 (SC_HEAVYFREIGHT)}.\par
{\b 16}\tab Single class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU156)}.\par
{\b 17}\tab Single class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU158)}.\par
{\b 18}\tab Single class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU170)}.\par
{\b 19}\tab Twin class 156 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN156)}.\par
{\b 20}\tab Twin class 158 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN158)}.\par
{\b 21}\tab Twin class 170 DMU {\fs18 (SC_TWIN170)}.\par
{\b 22}\tab Single class 150 DMU {\fs18 (SC_DMU150)}.\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Values 1-6 and 10-12 inclusive are used for normal trains and a locomotive is automatically 
selected from the {\fs18 [LOCOS]} array by Rail Control. Values 7-9 and 13-14 are 
provided to allow light (unconnected) locomotives to be brought into the 
station from an external locoyard. These locos are fully fuelled and can 
be attached to any train in the station or sent to the locoyard.\par
\par
Values other than those defined above are reserved for future use and should not be used.\par
\par
{\fs24\b <Status> field}\par
\par
These two fields are interpreted differently by Rail Control based on 
whether the train is in the station at the start of the simulation 
period. This is determined by comparing the {\f0\fs20 <Arr time>} field with the 
{\f0\fs20 <Start time>} specified in the {\fs18 [GENERAL]} section. If 
the latter is greater than the former then the train is considered to be 
in the station at the simulation start. Note that delays cannot be 
applied to trains which are in the station at the start.\par
\par
If the train is in the station at the start of the simulation the 
{\f0\fs20 <Status>} field is used to indicate the initial status of the 
train. See the list below for more information.\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 0}\tab None - default status {\fs18 (ST_NONE)}.\par
{\b 1}\tab Train is due and is in the list of arrivals {\fs18 (ST_DUE)}.\par
{\b 2}\tab Train is approaching the station {\fs18 (ST_APPROACH)}.\par
{\b 3}\tab Train is held outside the station {\fs18 (ST_HELD)}.\par
{\b 4}\tab Train is first train held outside the station {\fs18 (ST_FIRSTHELD)}.\par
{\b 5}\tab Train is set to a platform {\fs18 (ST_SETPLAT)}.\par
{\b 6}\tab Train is on stage A of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRA)}.\par
{\b 7}\tab Train is on stage B of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRB)}.\par
{\b 8}\tab Train is on stage C of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRC)}.\par
{\b 9}\tab Train is on stage D of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRD)}.\par
{\b 10}\tab Train is on stage E of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRE)}.\par
{\b 11}\tab Train is on stage F of approach {\fs18 (ST_ARRF)}.\par
{\b 12}\tab Train is in a platform {\fs18 (ST_INPLAT)}.\par
{\b 13}\tab Stock has been released {\fs18 (ST_RELEASE)}.\par
{\b 14}\tab A fresh loco has been attached to the stock {\fs18 (ST_STOCKOK)}.\par
{\b 15}\tab Train is ready to depart {\fs18 (ST_READYDEP)}.\par
{\b 16}\tab Train is starting its departure {\fs18 (ST_STARTDEP)}.\par
{\b 17}\tab Train is on stage A of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPA)}.\par
{\b 18}\tab Train is on stage B of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPB)}.\par
{\b 19}\tab Train is on stage C of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPC)}.\par
{\b 20}\tab Train is on stage D of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPD)}.\par
{\b 21}\tab Train is on stage E of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPE)}.\par
{\b 22}\tab Train is on stage F of departure {\fs18 (ST_DEPF)}.\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
At present only states 12 and 14 are supported for the {\f0\fs20 <Status>} 
field. Using other states may cause abnormal behaviour. Values other 
than those specified above are reserved for future use.\par
\par
If the train is not in the station at start up then the value of this 
field should be zero (0).\par
\par
{\fs24\b <Extra1> field}\par
\par
The value in this field is dependant upon whether the train is in the 
station at startup (see above for a description of how this is 
determined). If the train is in the station at startup then this field 
determines which platform the train is in. The field should be set to 
the reference number of the appropriate {\fs18 [PLATFORMS]} section.\par
\par
If the train is not in the station at startup then this field can be 
used to control the on-time arrival nature of the train:\par
\par
\tx720\li720\fi-360
{\b 0}\tab Train will always arrive on-time.\par
{\b 1}\tab Train can be up to 12 minutes early or late.\par
{\b 2}\tab Train can be up to 12 minutes early or late and requires mechanical maintenance.\par
{\b 3}\tab Train can be up to 12 minutes early or late and is a through train.\par
{\b 4}\tab Train can be up to 12 minutes late.\par
{\b 5}\tab Train can be up to 12 minutes late and is a through train.\par
\par\pard\plain\f4\fs20
If the train requires mechanical maintenance then it will appear in 
yellow in the platforms window and should be sent to the external depot 
via any {\i Output} selector. Values other 
than those specified above are reserved for future use.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [GENERAL]\plain\v\f4 general\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page


#{\footnote general}${\footnote RCD [GENERAL]}K{\footnote RCD data file;RCD [GENERAL]}+{\footnote RCD:40}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b RCD [GENERAL]\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
The {\fs18 [GENERAL]} section contains items of information that are 
required for a simulation but which do not fit into any of the other 
categories. At present only five items are defined in this section and 
all must be present for the RCD data file to considered as valid by 
Rail Control. These are:\par
\par
{\b StartTime:} This is the simulation starting time in {\fs18 HHMM} 
format. Thus for a start time of 6:45am this field should be set as 
follows:\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab StartTime= 0645}\par
\par
{\b StopTime:} This is the simulation end time in {\fs18 HHMM} format. 
Thus for a stop time of 1:45pm this field should be set as follows:\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab StopTime= 1345}\par
\par
{\b StartText1:} At the start of a simulation Rail Control displays a dialog 
box which is intended to summarize the simulation about to start. This is the 
first line of text that appears in this box. This should be a heading of some 
sort. It has a maximum length of 80 characters.\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab StartText1= Summer Saturday in 1988 - 06:45hrs}\par
\par
{\b StartText2:} At the start of a simulation Rail Control displays a dialog 
box which is intended to summarize the simulation about to start. This is the 
first line of text that appears in this box. This should be the first line of a 
description. It has a maximum length of 80 characters.\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab StartText2= Prepare to start your 7 hour shift as}\par
\par
{\b StartText3:} At the start of a simulation Rail Control displays a dialog 
box which is intended to summarize the simulation about to start. This is the 
first line of text that appears in this box. This should be the first line of a 
description. It has a maximum length of 80 characters.\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab StartText3= duty controller at Glasgow Queen Street Station}\par
\par
{\b DrawSelectorNumber:} This is a debugging option.  If enabled, Rail Control will 
display selector reference numbers rather than selector names.  This option is enabled if 
the value is equal to "T".  If it is missing or the value is set to a value other 
"T" then it is disabled.\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab DrawSelectorNumber=T}\par
\par
{\b DrawSectionNumber:} This is a debugging option.  If enabled, Rail Control will 
overlay the section numbers on top of the sections in the main display.  This option is enabled if 
the value is equal to "T".  If it is missing or the value is set to a value other 
"T" then it is disabled.\par
\par
{\f0\fs20\tab DrawSectionNumber=T}\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SELECTOR]\plain\v\f4 selectors\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [SECTIONS]\plain\v\f4 sections\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [OVERLAPPING]\plain\v\f4 overlapping\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [PLATFORMS]\plain\v\f4 platforms\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [ROUTES]\plain\v\f4 routes\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOS]\plain\v\f4 locos\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [LOCOYARD]\plain\v\f4 locoyard\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
RCD [TIMETABLE]\plain\v\f4 timetable\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\par
\page





#{\footnote mainwin}${\footnote Main window display}K{\footnote Main window display;Commands}+{\footnote Commands:05}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Main window display\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bml mainwin.bmp\}}\par
\par
The main window display displays various information: click on any part of the window 
above for more information.\par 
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\page

#{\footnote mw_toolbar1}
{\f4\fs24\b Main window tool bar}
\f4\fs20\par
\par
The buttons located here affect the whole program. They include buttons 
to control a simulation, to configure general program options and to export 
and copy data. See the \uldb toolbars\v toolbars\plain\f4\fs20  topic for 
more information.\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote mw_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Main window}
\f4\fs20\par
\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote mw_statbar}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar}
\f4\fs20\par
\par
The status bar displays extra information when a simulation is in progress. 
Information about the function of each tool button is also displayed here when the button 
is depressed.\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote mw_title}
{\f4\fs24\b Main window title}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The name of the application, Rail Control, is shown here. \par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote mw_menu}
{\f4\fs24\b Main window menu}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is Rail Control's main menu. Click on a menu item to activate it.\par
\pard
\page




#{\footnote toolbars}${\footnote Tool bars}K{\footnote Tool bars;Commands}+{\footnote Commands:15}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Tool bars\par
\pard\plain \f4\fs20
\par
\par
Various options can be selected using the tool bar which gives quick and
 easy access to the most commonly used functions. Shown below are all the
 tool bar icons and their functions.\par
\par
\par
{\fs24\b Main window tool bar}\par
\par
\tx600\li600\fi-200
{\{bml helpicon.bmp\}}Display the help file contents.\par
\par
{\{bml about.bmp\}}Display the {\i About} information dialog.\par
\pard
\par
\par
The buttons that are enabled depend on the state of the active window.
 Not all buttons are available at all times.\par
\par
\par
\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Main window display\plain \v\f4 mainwin\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
\page


}
